#summary GDK FAQs

=GDK FAQ=

  * [FAQ#What_is_the_GDK? What is the GDK?]
  * [FAQ#Why_should_I_use_it? Why should i use it?]
  * [FAQ#What_platforms_are_supported? What platforms are supported?]
  * [FAQ#Feature_set? Feature set?]
  * [FAQ#Requirements? Requirements?]
  * [FAQ#Shipped_games? Shipped games?]

===What is the GDK?===
The GDK (short for Game Development Kit) is a set of Project Files, Code, Tools, and Assets for jump starting a game or graphical application in C++.   GDK based projects run on all supported platforms out of the box. 

===Why should I use it?===
The primary purpose of the GDK, is to get a game project running from scratch *as fast as possible*.  By simply downloading the GDK package & running a quick command line tool, you will have a building/running game on multiple platforms in under a minute.  

The secondary purpose of the GDK is to streamline the process of getting content into a game and rendered on screen *as easy as possible*.  The GDK's Content Studio tool provides a simple interface for managing, configuring, and building your game assets (Images, Textures, Fonts, Animations, Models, Shaders, Materials, etc).   The GDK C++ layer provides classes for loading & displaying these assets. 

===What platforms are supported?===
Fully functional
  * Windows XP / Vista / 7
  * MAC OS X 10.5+
  * iOS 3.2+   (iPhone / iPad / iPod)

In the works
  * Android   (Phone & Tablet)
  * Google NaCl

===Feature set?===
Content:
  * Full suite of content management / configuration / building tools
  * *All popular image formats.*  Images are processed & compressed in their native texture pixel formats for super fast decompression & loading.
  * *Atlased sprite sheets:*  Put loads of images onto 1 sheet , create animations from them, and use custom pixel formats, image scaling, etc.   All configurable in easy-to-understand xml .atlas files.
  * *COLLADA Mesh support*.   (Currently only static meshes are supported, skinning & more are in works)
  * *BM Fonts:*  convert true type fonts into bitmap fonts and use them into your game.

C++ Layer
  * *Platform Projects:*   Pre-configured projects for every supported platform.
  * *Core Systems:*  Multithreading, C++ Multicast Delegates, File IO,  OS Interfaces
  * *Math Library* (2D & 3D), Transforms, Shapes, Intersection Tests, Collision Tests, etc
  * *Debugging tools:*   Logging, Memory tracking, Assertions, Debug breaks, etc
  * *Localizable:*  UTF8 / UTF16 logging, text rendering, and font support.
  * *2D Graphics:*  Images, Animations, Sprites, Primitives (circles, rects, lines, etc), Font Text, etc
  * *3D Graphics:*  Models, Meshes, Textures, primtiives (spheres, cones, boxes, etc).
  * *Input: *   Keyboard, Mouse, Touch, Gestures, Motion, Vibration, Accelerometers, Device interfaces, etc
  * *Asset Management:*  Background loading, Compressed assets, Asset Pools, etc


===Requirements?===
For Development: 
  * *Windows:*   Visual Studio 2008+ (Express will work just fine) 
  * *MAC / iOS:*   XCode 4

For Running:
  * OpenGL 2.1 or OpenGL ES 2.0

===Shipped games?===
Finished Games: 

  * *[http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/little-soldiers-hd/id388360005?mt=8 Little Soldiers HD]* - (iPhone & iPod)
  * *[http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/the-incredible-machine/id440297659?mt=8 The Incredible Machine]* - (iPad, iPhone, & iPod)

Miscellaneous Projects:

  * *[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5sK4S-WxsCQ GunHack]* - Made in 72-hours - Ludum Dare #20 JAM Entry   (Windows, Mac, iOS 3.2)